.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\" Created By: Jon Green
.\"
.\" $Id: tmac.ad,v 1.3 2009/08/29 17:14:34 jon Exp $
.\"
.\" Identification
.de Id
.\" Ignore
..
.\" Index definition
.de Im
.\" Ignore
..
.\" Reference definition.
.de XI
.\" Ignore
..
.\" Footer
.de FH
.\" Ignore
..
.\" Hyper-link to manual page.
.de Ht
\fB\\$1(\\$2)\fP\\$3
..
.\" Hyper-link to other item
.de Hl 
\fB\\$1\fP\\$4
..
.\" Hyper-reference to manual page.
.de Hr
\fB\\$1(\\$2)\fP\\$3
..
.\" MicroEmacs code.
.de Me
.\" Ignore
..
.\" Code start
.de CS
.sp \\$1
.ft CW
.nf
.na
..
.\" Code end
.de CE
.ft R
.fi
.ad
.sp \\$1
..
.\" Constant width
.de C
\fC\\$1\\$2\\$3\\$4\\$5\\$6\fP
..
.\" End of definitions.
.\" No space on the end of the file please!
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\" Global abbreviations for MicroEmacs
.\"
.ds mE "MicroEmacs 2009
.ds mS "MicroEmacs
.ds nE "NanoEmacs 2009
.ds nS "NanoEmacs
.ds cX "C-x\ \&
.ds cH "C-h\ \&
.ds e  "esc \&
.ds a  "A\-
.ds s  "S\-
.ds c  "C\-
.ds m  "M\-
.ds dE "delete
.ds eS "esc
.ds tA "tab
.ds rE "return
.ds sP "space
.ds bS "backspace
.ds iN "insert
.ds pD "page-down
.ds pU "page-up
.ds hO "home
.ds eN "end
.ds cC "center
.ds cU "up
.ds cD "down
.ds cR "right
.ds cL "left
.ds f1 "f1
.ds f2 "f2
.ds f3 "f3
.ds f4 "f4
.ds f5 "f5
.ds f6 "f6
.ds f7 "f7
.ds f8 "f8
.ds f9 "f9
.ds fA "f10
.ds fB "f11
.ds fC "f12
.ds mP "pick-mouse
.ds mD "drop-mouse
.ds mM "move-mouse
.ds mG "drag-mouse
.ds rD "redraw
.ds sF "ISO-8859-1 (Latin 1)
.ds aF "ISO-8859-1
.ds iF "ISO-8859
.\" No spaces on end of file please !!
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\" Created By: Jon Green
.\"
.Id $Id: m1cmd000.1,v 2.20 2009/08/29 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs function
.\" Removed definition file inclusion
.TH me 1
.XI me - "\*(mE text editor"
.SH NAME
me - \*(mE text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B me
[\fIoptions\fR]
[\fIfiles ...\fR]
.sp
.B me
[\|\fB@\fR\|\fIstartupFile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-a\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-b\fR\ \|\fIfile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-B\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-c\fR\|[\|\fIsessionName\fR\|]]
[\|\fB\-h\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-i\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-k\fR[\|\fIkey\fR\|]\ \|\fIfile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-l\fR\|\fIlineNo\fR\|[\fB:\fIcolumn\|\fR]]
[\|\fB\-m\fR\|\fIcommand\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-n\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-o\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-0\fR\|\fIfile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-p\fR\ [\|\fB\-P\fR\|]\ \|]
[\|\fB\-R\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-r\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-s\fR\|\fIstring\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-u\fR\|\fIusername\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-v\fR\|\fIvariable=string\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-V\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-x\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-y\fR\ \|\fIfile\fR\|]
\fIfiles...\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "\*(mE"
is a cut  down  version  of the  \s-1EMACS\s0  text  editor,  based on  Danial
Lawrences \*(mS.
.B "\*(mE"
is a tool for creating and changing documents,  programs, and other text files.
It is both  relatively  easy for the novice to use, but also very  powerful in
the hands of an expert. \*(mE can be extensively customized for the needs
of the individual user.
.PP
.B "\*(mE"
allows  multiple  files to be edited at the same time. The screen may be split
into  different  windows and  screens,  and text may be moved  freely from one
window on any screen to the next. Depending on the type of file being edited,
.B "\*(mE"
can change how it behaves to make editing simple. Editing standard text files,
program files and word processing documents are all possible at the same time.
.PP
There are extensive  capabilities  to make word processing and editing easier.
These  include   commands  for  string  searching  and  replacing,   paragraph
reformatting  and deleting,  automatic  word  wrapping, word move and deletes,
easy case controlling, and automatic word counts.
.PP
For complex and repetitive  editing tasks editing macros can be written. These
macros  allow  the user a great  degree  of  flexibility  in  determining  how
\fB\*(mE\fR  behaves.  Also, any and all the  commands can be used by any
key stroke by changing, or re-binding, what commands various keys invoke.
.PP
Special  features  are also  available to perform a diverse set of  operations
such as file  encryption,  automatic  backup file  generation,  en-tabbing and
de-tabbing  lines, executing  operating  system commands and filtering of text
through other programs.
.PP
The command line options to
.B "\*(mE"
are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fB@\fR\|\fIstartFile\fR"
Initialize  \*(mE using  \fIstartFile\fR\|[\fB.emf\fR].  The default when
omitted is \fBme.emf\fR. See 
.Ht start-up 3 
and 
.Hl "Command Line Filters" filters - 
for more information.
.IP \fB\-\fR
Pipe  \fIstdin\fR  into  buffer  \fB*stdin*\fR,  when the  buffer is saved the
output is written  \fIstdout\fR.  Following is a simple  example which changes
\'\fCa\fR's to '\fCb\fR's:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
        define-macro start-up
            find-buffer "*stdin*"
            beginning-of-buffer
            replace-string "a" "b"
            save-buffer
            quick-exit
        !emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.IP
This can be used in the following manner:
.CS
        me "@testpipe.emf" < foo.a > foo.b
.CE 
See \fB\-p\fR for disabling user interaction and the help page for command
.Ht ml-write 2
for a further example.
.IP \fB-a\fR
Toggle the auto-save mode, this toggles the 
.Ht auto 2m 
mode. 
.IP
\fBNote:\fR  that \*(nS  disables  auto save mode by default and \*(mS enables
auto save mode by default.  The  behavior of \fB-a\fR is  therefore  different
between the two editors. 
.IP \fB\-b\fR
Load next file as a binary file (binary editor mode, uses
.Ht binary 2m
buffer mode).
.IP \fB-B\fR
Toggle the backup mode, this toggles the 
.Ht backup 2m 
mode. 
.IP
\fBNote:\fR  that \*(nS  disables  backup  mode by default  and \*(mS  enables
backup  mode by  default.  The  behavior  of \fB-B\fR is  therefore  different
between the two editors. 
.IP \fB\-c\fR[\fIsessionName\fR]
Continuation  mode. Load the  \fB\*(mE\fR  last edit  session,  restoring  the
buffers to their  previous  loaded  state when  history  mode is enabled.  The
\fB\-c\fR    option   is   generally    used   with    windowing    interfaces
(X-Windows/Microsoft Windows) as the shortcut icon invocation.
.IP
If the optional session name  \fIsessionName\fR  is specified then the session
file  \fIsessionName\fR\|\fB.esf\fR  is loaded  restoring the previous editing
session including the buffer window size, position and layout, the buffer mark
and cursor  location,  main window size. When the  \fIsessionName\fR  includes
space  characters  then the  command  line  option  should be  bracketed  e.g.
\fC"-cFoo  Bar"\fR.  On a session  restore  then no  additional  files to load
should be  included on the command  line as this will not enable the  original
window  configuration to be restored as the window  configuration will change.
See 
.Ht read-session 3 
for further information.
.IP
If  the   \fIsessionName\fR   is  omitted   then  the  default   session  file
\fIusername\fR\|\fB.esf\fR is loaded (see 
.Ht esf 8 )
restoring the previously loaded buffers however the window layout and position
is not restored. The default \fIsessionName\fR is the login name
.Ht $MENAME 5 . 
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Show the help page (does not start the editor).
.IP \fB\-i\fR
\s-1MS-DOS\s0  versions of  \fB\*(mE\fR  only. Insert the contents of the
current screen into the \fB*scratch*\fR buffer
.IP \fB\-k\fR[\fIkey\fR]
Load next file as an encrypted file (uses
.Ht crypt 2m
buffer  mode). The  optional  adjoining  argument  can be used to specify  the
decrypting  key, if this argument is not specify the user will be prompted for
it on start-up. 
.IP \fB\-l\fR\|\fIlineNo\fR[\fB:\fIcolumn\fR]
Go to line \fIlineNo\fR in the next given file and optionally to the specified
column number. The column may be omitted if not required.  Typically used with
utilities such a
.Hr more 1
where an external editor may be invoked from other viewer.
.IP "\fB\-m\fR\|\fIcommand\fR"
Sends a  
.Hl client-server client-server 2
command  to  an  existing   \*(mS   session.   The  command   takes  the  form
"\fBC:\fR\|\fI<client>\fR\|\fB:\fR\|\fI<command>\fR"     i.e.     to     write
"\fCHello\fR  \fCWorld\fR"  on the  message  line then a client  may issue the
command:-
.RS
.CS
; launch server
me &
; send message
me -m "C:ME:ml-write \\"Hello world\\"
.CE 0
.RE
.IP 
Note that the  \fI<command>\fR  is a \*(mS macro command, the escape sequences
must be adhered to. The  \fIclient-server\fR  interface  is typically  used to
load a file, this may be performed as follows:-
.RS
.CS
me -m "C:myutility:find-file \\"/path/foo.bar\\""
.CE 0
.RE
.IP
The  absolute  path is  specified in this type of  transaction  as the current
working directory of the active \*(mS session is unknown. The \fB\-m\fR option
de-iconize's the existing editor session and bring it to the foreground.
.IP \fB\-n\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0  X-Windows  environments  only and  MicroSoft  Windows  NT console
versions.  Execute   \fB\*(mE\fR  using  termcap  rather  than  X-Windows  for
\s-1UNIX\s0; typically used within an \fBxterm\fR shell to fire up \fB\*(mE\fR
for a quick  edit. For  Microsoft  Windows,  a console  window is  started  as
opposed to a GUI window.
.IP "\fB\-o\fR\|\fI<file>\fR"
Use already  running version of \*(mE to load the  \fI<file>\fR, if it exists,
otherwise  start a new  editor  session.  This  uses  the  \fIclient-server\fR
interface to push the new file into the existing editor session. Refer to the 
.Hl "Client-Server Interface" client-server 2
for details.
.IP \fB\-p\fR
Used with the  \fB\-\fR  which  inputs  from  \fIstdin\fR  and  disables  user
interaction  within \*(mS. To debug then the  \fB\-P\fR  option may be used to
enable debug on \fIstderr\fR. See the help pages for commands
.Ht ml-write 2
and
.Ht command-wait 2
for examples of this option's use.
.IP \fB-P\fR
Used with the \fB\-p\fR option and is used for debugging the pipe mode,
.Ht ml-write 2
messages are displayed on \fIstderr\fR.
.IP \fB\-R\fR
Reverse the default video color scheme. The default  foreground  color becomes
the background color and vice versa. This only affects the built in scheme and
not any schemes defined in any start-up file.
.IP \fB\-r\fR
Read-only, all buffers will be in view mode
.IP \fB\-s\fR\|\fIstring\fR
Search for string "\fIstring\fR" in the current buffer. e.g.
.C "me -sfoo bar"
starts  \fB\*(mE\fR,  loads file  \fCbar\fR  and  initiates  a search for
\fIfoo\fR.  The cursor is left at the end of the string if located,  otherwise
at the top of the buffer.
.IP \fB\-u\fR\|\fIusername\fR
Set the current user name
.Ht $user-name 5 
to \fIusername\fR before \*(mS is initialized. 
.IP \fB\-v\fR\|\fIvariable=string\fR
Assign the  \*(mE  \fIvariable\fR  with  \fIstring\fR.  The assignment is
performed before the buffers are loaded. Typically used to change the start-up
characteristics of the startup file(s).
.IP \fB\-V\fR
Print the name and version of \*(mS. i.e.
.IP
\fCorac% me -V\fR
.br
\fCMicroEmacs 06 - Date 2006/08/10 - sunos\fR
.IP \fB\-x\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0  environments. Disable the capture of signals. \fB\*(mE\fR by
default  captures  an handles  all illicit  signal  interrupts.  The option is
enabled when  debugging  the source code allowing  exception  conditions to be
trapped within the debugger.
.IP \fB\-y\fR
Load next file as a reduced binary file (uses
.Ht rbin 2m
buffer mode).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are used by \fB\*(mE\fR.
.IP \fBDISPLAY\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0 environments running X-Windows only. The identity of the X-Windows
server. Typically set to \fBunix:0.0\fR, refer to the X-Windows  documentation
for details of this environment variable.
.IP "\fBMENAME\fR"
.Ht $MENAME 5 
is used to override the identity of the user
.Ht $user-name 5 .
The variable may be used to determine which start-up  configuration  to use in
the initialization of \fB\*(mE\fR (\fI$user-name\fR.erf). This is ignored if 
the \fB-u\fR option is specified on the command line.
.IP
Non-\s-1UNIX\s0  platforms  usually need to explicitly  set the  \fB$MENAME\fR
environment  variable to identify the aforementioned  files. for \s-1MS-DOS\s0
and early  versions of  Microsoft  Windows this is typically  performed in the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR file.
.IP \fBPATH\fR
The \fB$PATH\fR  environment  variable is used on most operating  systems as a
search path for executable files. This \fB$PATH\fR  environment  variable must
be defined with \fB\*(mE\fR on the search path. Under \s-1UNIX\s0 this is
set in the \fC.login\fR, \fC.cshrc\fR or \fC.profile\fR file i.e.
.RS
.IP
export PATH $PATH:/usr/name/me
.RE
.IP
Within  \s-1MS-DOS\s0 or Microsoft  Windows  environments it is defined in the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR file. e.g.
.RS
.IP
set PATH=%PATH%;c:\\me
.RE
.IP
\fB\*(mE\fR  utilizes information in the \fB$PATH\fR environment variable
to locate the start-up files, dictionaries etc.
.IP \fBTERM\fR
The terminal identification sting. In \s-1UNIX\s0 environments the environment
variable  \fB$TERM\fR is set to "\fCvt...\fR", in this case it is assumed that
the  machine is a server,  and the host  cannot  support X (see  command  line
option \fB\-n\fR).
.IP
In  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  the  environment  variable  is  usually  set to define  the
graphics  adapter mode.  \fB%TERM\fR  is assigned a string,  understood by the
\fCme.emf\fR  start-up  file, to set the  graphics  mode.  Predefined  strings
include:-
.RS
.IP \fBE80x50\fR
Initiates an 80 column by 50 line screen.
.IP \fBE80x25\fR
Initiates an 80 column by 25 line screen.
.IP \fIuserDefined\fR
A user defined string to set an explicit  graphics card mode. The operation is
dependent upon the support offered by the graphics adapter.
.RE
.IP \fBMEINSTALLPATH\fR
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 
is an environment  variable that overrides any internally  defined search path
for \*(mS system macros and defines the root  directory(s) of the \*(mS system
macros. The presence of the environment variable affects 
.Ht $search-path 5 .
.IP \fBMEUSERPATH\fR
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is an  environment  variable  that defines the users  private  directory  
where user configuration files such as
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.emf\fR,
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.erf\fR
and personal spelling  dictionaries are stored. This is an absolute  directory
path. The environment variable sets the \*(mS variable
.Ht $user-path 5 .
.IP \fBMEPATH\fR
.Ht $MEPATH 5
is an environment variable that may be used to define the absolute search path
for \*(mS macro files and affects the setting of
.BR $search-path .
The path should include the system macros  location(s)  and should include the
user directory location
.Ht $user-path 5
as the first path when the environment variable
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is not defined. If  \fB$MEUSERPATH\fR  is defined  then this path name appears
before the \fB$MEPATH\fR variable to define the user directory location.
.B $MEPATH
is not searching, so \s-1ALL\s0 directories to be searched must be included in
the path specification.
.IP
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is the preferred method used to defined the user directory.
.IP \fBINFOPATH\fR
\*(mE uses the environment  variable  \fC$INFOPATH\fR as the directory(s) used
to search for GNU \fBInfo\fR files. Within the \s-1UNIX\s0  \fC$INFOPATH\fR is
a semi-colon  separated  list of directories  which are used to search for the
\*(mE macro  files. The path is searched  from left to right. The  environment
variable is  typically  defined in the in the  \fC.login\fR,  \fC.cshrc\fR  or
\fC.profile\fR file i.e.
.RS
.IP
export INFOPATH /usr/local/info:$HOME/info
.RE
.IP
The default when omitted is \fC/usr/local/info\fR.
.IP
Within  \s-1MS-DOS\s0 or Microsoft  Windows  environments it is defined in the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR file. e.g.
.RS
.IP
set MEPATH=c:\\usr\\local\\info
.RE
.IP
There is no default  location in these  environments.  For  Microsoft  Windows
environments refer to 
.Ht me32.ini 8
for a method of setting up the \fC$INFOPATH\fR from the windows  configuration
file.
.SH FILES
All of the macro files and  dictionaries  are located in the  \fB\*(mS\fR
home directory. The standard file extensions that are utilized are:-
.IP "\fB.eaf\fR"
\fB\*(mE\fR  abbreviation file, defines completion definitions for buffer
dependent text expansion.
.IP "\fB.edf\fR"
A \fB\*(mE\fR spelling dictionary. \fI<language>\fR\fB.edf\fR provide language
specific   dictionaries;   \fI$LOGNAME\fR\fB.edf\fR   is   personal   spelling
dictionary.
.IP "\fB.ehf\fR"
\fB\*(mE\fR  help file  information.  On-line help information for emacs,
the main file is \fCme.ehf\fR.
.IP "\fB.emf\fR"
A \fB\*(mE\fR macro file. The following classes of macro file exist:
.RS
.IP "\fBme.emf\fR"
The default startup file.
.IP \fI<platform>.emf\fR
A  platform   specify   startup  file,  these  include   \s-1UNIX   generic\s0
(\fCunixterm.emf\fR),  \s-1UNIX\s0 specific  (\fCirix.emf\fR,  \fChpux.emf\fR,
\fCunixwr1.emf\fR,  \fClinux.emf\fR,  \fCsunos.emf\fR  etc), Microsoft Windows
(\fCwin32.emf\fR), \s-1MS-DOS\s0 (\fCdos.emf\fR).
.IP "\fBhk\fR\fIxxxxxx\fR\fB.emf\fR"
Buffer  context  specific  hook files to  initialize  a buffer with macros and
highlighting  appropriate  to the contents of the file type. e.g. 'C' language
editing  (\fChkc.emf\fR),  N/Troff typesetting  (\fChknroff.emf\fR),  UNIX
Manual page display (\fChkman.emf\fR), Makefiles (\fChkmake.emf\fR), etc.
.RE
.IP "\fB.erf\fR"
Registry files, used to retain personal information, users history in the file
etc.
.IP "\fB.etf\fR"
Template  files used to seed new files.  Typically  contains  standard  header
information,  copyright notices etc. that are placed at the head of files. The
\'C' programming language is called \fCc.etf\fR
.SH "MICROSOFT WINDOWS"
Microsoft  Windows environments should refer to 
.Ht me32.ini 8
for a method of  setting up the  environment  variables  without  editing  the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR configuration file.
.PP
Drag and drop  support  is  provided  in the  Windowing  version of \*(mS. The
editor window is brought into focus following the drop.
.SH UNIX
Xdnd drag and drop support is provided in the X-Windows  version of \*(mS. The
editor  window is not  raised or  brought  into  focus  following  the drop as
expected in the \s-1UNIX\s0 environment. 
.SH "SESSIONS"
Reading a session is generally performed when a \*(mS session is started using
the  "\fB-c\fR"  command line option rather than from the mode line or main
menu, see
.Ht read-session 3 .
Invoking
.IP
\fBme -c\fR\|\fI<mySessionName>\fR
.LP
where \fI<mySessionName>\fR is the name of the session (the
.Ht $MENAME 5
or system  login name) will  restore all of of the  buffers,  windows  layout,
point and mark  positions, main window size etc. at the point of the last shut
down. e.g. given a system login name of \fIjasspa\fR then
.IP
\fBme -c\fR\|\fIjasspa\fR
.LP
restores  the  session  to the state  when  \fIjasspa\fR  last  exited  \*(mS.
When the session name is specified then no other files should be specified, so
the command line
.IP
\fBme -c\fR\|\fIjasspa\fR \fCmorefiles.txt\fR
.LP
restores the buffers but does not restore the window  layout  because this has
been destroyed by the introduction of the new file "\fCmorefiles.txt\fR". This
type of command  with  another  file behaves as the old "\fCme -c\fR"  command
prior   to  the   2006   release   that   did   not   support   sessions.   If
\fI<mySessionName>\fR  is not specified  then the buffers are restored but the
window layout is not restored.
.SH "HISTORY"
The 2006 release  removed the \fC-d\fR  command line option for debugging (not
used) and added  session  support by  extending  the  \fC-c\fR  option with an
optional \fIsessionName\fR argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht read-session 3 ,
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5 ,
.Ht emf 8 ,
.Ht erf 8 ,
.Ht esf 8 ,
.Ht $home 5 ,
.Hr emacs 1 " [GNU],"
.Hr more 1 ,
.Ht ne 1 ,
.Hr vi 1 .
.br
.Hl "Client-Server Interface" client-server 2 .
.br
.Hl "Command Line Filters" filters - .
.ad
.FH
